## Day 4 - Basics of Audio

There are many tools to produce audio freely available for download. Ranging from sample editors to complete DAW (Digital Audio Workstation) solutions.

Modern PC demos typically play a pre-recorded final mix of the audio (an mp3 of the track), but the roots of the demoscene involve sample generation and the so called tracker formats. Most demos for oldschool platforms still feature live mixing playback of a tracked track.

The [tracker format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Module_file) can be divided into 3 main concepts: samples & instruments, patterns and sequencing order. You can typically load or configure the parameters of samples that can be played. Certain trackers allow you to configure samples into instruments by defining behaviors on how the sample will be played when triggered under different pitches. The samples or instruments are then sequenced in patterns that will be played back under the stipulated tempo. And you can set the order of how the patterns will be played under the song sequence. These simple rules are the basis for most trackers that exist out there, each of them with their unique, quirky and often highly counter-intuitive menus that you'll grow to love.

Certain platforms have sample and instrument restrictions, such as only playing sinus, saw or square wave forms. Or only allowing certain types of filters. The limitations of each soundchip platform gives it a signature sound, the exploration of these signature 8bit and 16 bit sounds is what popularized the chiptune music genre.

To create sound for limited size intros demomakers have developed their own synthesizers, forcing the musicians to generate instruments procedurally. Storing the required function steps to recreate the instruments procedurally takes much less space than storing the entire sample. Popular demoscene production synths include [4klang](http://4klang.untergrund.net/) and [clinkster](http://www.pouet.net/prod.php?which=61592).

Of course if you are doing sound for demos instead of intros you are not limited by size, so you can do your soundtrack in whatever application you prefer: Fruity Loops Studio, Ableton Live, Cubase, Reason, Logic Pro, etc.

By the end of day 4 you should know what tools to use if you want to do sound for a demo or a music compo entry. Try a few of them out, check some tutorials, learn the shortcuts and master the tool you find most interesting.