## Day 6 - Tools and Resources

There are many ways to do demos. Some folks enjoy coding everything from scratch, others prefer to use tools to facilitate their work. There are many types of tools, some are commercial (like Maya, 3DS Max, Photoshop), others are open source or freeware. And then we have the so called demotools. Demotools are tools made by demosceners especially to help create better demos. Demotools are especially important if you're working on size limited entries. Some groups develop their internal demotools, others prefer to go open source in order to have more users and raise the bar. The end goal is always to make more good demos.

I would strongly advise you to take a quick look at the different demotools available and see which you can use, this is important to avoid reinventing the wheel and achieve good results before you grow frustrated with the learning curve. You can find a list of the most famous demotools on [pouet](http://www.pouet.net/prodlist.php?type%5B0%5D=demotool&page=1&order=thumbup), they range from texture generators, music trackers, synths or graphics tools or format converters to full featured demomaking engines, executable packers and linkers.

Here is a [list](https://peisik.untergrund.net/engines/) put together by cce/peisik of all demotools (with screenshots) put together in one place for easy reference.

The best way to know what tool might interest you is to either check them all out one at a time, or visit a demoparty on location and just randomly ask another fellow scener. Your tools largely depend on your demoscene role of choice and target platform so i hope you have a hint of a plan by now.

As you progress you will notice several limitations and quirks with the tools you use, and will most likely feel the need to either develop your own set of tools or contribute to active existing projects.

Similarly important to knowing the tools of the trade available to you are what resources are out there, including free tracks, samples, sprites, or animated models; usable tools, editors and engines; [tutorials](http://howto.planet-d.net/wiki/index.php?n=Main.Sources); and ways to get motivation or support, including [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/MCDXrrB), [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/Demoscene) or [irc channels](https://www.pouet.net/topic.php?which=8192&page=1). It's usually a matter of doing a few google searches or asking fellow sceners about their demomaking habits.

Demosceners typically have very strong and very individual opinions on what is cool and what is lame. The demoscene has no written rules. Different people have different concepts of what "their" demoscene is about. So it's quite easy to get negative commentary. You should realize that an opinion is just an opinion, you don't have to please everyone. The demoscene is a hobby, so you should above all, aim to please yourself first. If you put effort and dedication into your entry I’m sure people will acknowledge your effort regardless of if they liked it or disagree with some of the "shortcuts" you took in their eyes to get the demo done.

My recommendation is to always be honest with your sources, entries typically have a readme.txt file in the package, this is a text document where you can describe your work process, what tools you used and why. If you include proper documented information the people who read it will no longer feel that cheated if your demo used a ripped soundtrack, repurposed some shaders or used a commercial engine. They will evaluate it accordingly.

That being said, the more "original" material and effort you put into the entry the more impact it will have on other demosceners. Generally speaking: reusing with proper credit is generally considered fair game, claiming ownership of someone else's work is not.

By the end of day 6 you should have a good idea of what tools and resources are out there to assist you on your plan for world domination.