## Day 8 - Achievable Goals

As previously mentioned there are plenty of ways to make a demo. The only "right way" is your own way, the one that is the most interesting and fun for you.

That being said, an effective rule to ensure a release will be released is to aim for achievable goals.

If you are not reasonable with your goals you'll soon find yourself demotivated and failing to meet the deadline. For most projects it's better to start small and build on top of what you already have working.

If you have no idea where to start here are a few pointers:
* Some people try to replicate some effects after seeing something interesting on other demos, movies, adverts or nature. Building up a batch of different effects which can later be adapted to match a track.
* Others prefer to nail down a concept first and only then get to work on it's different components.
* Some sceners only feel the drive to create something when they are challenged with a very specific issue.
* Some coders only do engines, frameworks and tools. Sharing them with other sceners to see what they can do with them.
* Some graphicians fool around with engines and tools until something seems interesting.
* Some musicians prepare timelines and storyboards for their sounds.

All these approaches are valid. As mentioned several times already: demoscene is a hobby. So don't treat it as work, do whatever you like whenever you feel like doing it.

Some pro tips to keep in mind:

1. There is a finite number of productive hours per day, there is a finite number of days until the demoparty deadline, aim for achievable goals. If you achieve them fast, build on top of them.
2. If you have no ideas, try random things. Eventually you will come up with a concept. Don't let a lack of initial concept paralyse you.
3. Work on the project at least 5 minutes each day, even if it's just tweaking some colors. This helps to keep the project in the back of your mind and eventually you will find the motivation to spend more then just 5 minutes and do a bigger push.
4. Communicate your progress with your team mates. They might give you important feedback, and it can also motivate them to contribute.

Some additional protips by Gargaj: [Getting stuff done - practical solutions for pulling off large projects](https://gargaj.tumblr.com/post/618398787188211712/getting-stuff-done-practical-solutions-for)

If you keep all these things in mind by the end of day 8 you should be able to lay down a work plan aimed at reaching achievable goals.