## Day 9 - Proof of Concept

Now it's time to stop procastinating and get your hands dirty! It's been scientifically proven that anyone spending over 10,000 hours doing any task will eventually become an expert in it. It's very hard for the human mind _not_ to learn from mistakes. So don't be afraid to make them, as previously mentioned: fail often, fail hard, eventually you will succeed.

It's normal to be afraid of tackling a new challenge. Some people simply lack confidence. Others prefer to brainstorm and try to figure out the best way to attack it before they start. There is nothing wrong with taking your time planning a strategy, but it's all quite useless if you don't actually sit down and try to get it done. So now is the time to try it!

If you're feeling clueless, try using the whiteboard or the good old pen and paper, drawing helps the brain puzzle things out. It doesn't need to be anything fancy, just a sketch, notes, a list of ideas, a list of tasks, or a mapping of concepts, even some simple workflow charts can be extremely helpful to get your thoughts in check.

Force yourself to work on the issue atleast 5 to 15 minutes every day. Even if it's just analysing what you have, or doing small changes, open your tool and try something. More often then not you'll end up spending more time working on it then you initially planned. This daily discipline is useful to keep the task fresh in your mind.

If an empty canvas is too daunting, throw something random at it. Either play some random notes or draw some random shapes. Random generators are an easy catalyst for new ideas.

Trying to do a proof of concept for your idea is the best way to get things rolling but don't expect the final results to match your original idea. Don't get disapointed if it's not what you had envisioned. Atleast it's something. Even if you conclude it's just crap, by going through the process of creating it you learned things which will help your next attempts. You gain invaluable experience points from everything you do.

By the end of day 9 you should be aware of the importance of building a proof of concept of your idea and some insight on how to break out of the demosceners procastination curse.