## Day 10 - Deadlines Are Important

Nothing like a good old deadline to force you to shape your ideas into a finalized entry.

Demoscene has a natural deadline called the next demoparty. Every demoscener has an "oh shit, now i have to make an entry" moment. It usually comes right after buying the flight tickets to a demoparty.

Sure you could just go to the demoparty and socialize. Nothing wrong with that. Except that everyone at the party will most likely ask if you're working on an entry for the compos, and there is only such a limited amount of plausible excuses you can offer that justify not working on an entry while there is time left.

Even half an hour is plenty of time to do _something_ for a compo. It might not be the mona lisa of the demoscene, but it's an entry. For those who didn't have time to do anything before the party there are also fastcompos. These competitions are prepared specifically to force you to do something within small time constraints.

If you don't have any releases for the party, you'll spend the event watching other people's entries on the big screen and wondering if you couldn't have done something that would place higher then that piece of crap you just saw or heard.

So don't be afraid of the deadline. Deadline is your friend. It forces you to stop the daydreaming bullshit and focus on what's really important and actually achievable. If the deadline wasn't there you would most probably never actually deliver anything. "Art is never finished, only abandoned." Look at the deadline as the point in time where you will be liberated from your current artistic burden. And if you don't buy into that philosophy you can always release a final version of your entry later on.

By the end of the 10th day you should realize the importance of deadlines, how to not fear them, but respect them for the panic and closure they can bring to the demo making creative process.